RELEASE PROCEDURES
--------------------------------------------

This file is intended for developers and packagers of rsnapshot,
not for regular users/installers of rsnapshot.

It was originally emailled by Nathan Rosenquist (former rsnapshot
maintainer) in response to a request for information from David Keegel
about rsnapshot release procedures.  It has subsequently been updated.

Files that need to have the rsnapshot version number updated before a
release:

    INSTALL
    Makefile.am
    README
    configure.ac
    rsnapshot-program.pl
    redhat/SPECS/rsnapshot.spec
    ChangeLog

Automake/Autoconf file generation :

    Quick Start:
	You can just run
		utils/mkmakefile.sh
	or
		utils/mkmakefile.sh --sysconfdir=/etc
	Then skip down to the USING MAKE section.

    Manual automake/autoconf:

	    The 'aclocal' command takes configure.ac and generates aclocal.m4
	    The 'autoconf' command takes configure.ac + aclocal.m4 and generates
	the 'configure' file (plus some junk that 'make clean' gets rid of)
	    The 'automake' command takes Makefile.am and creates Makefile.in
	(plus some other junk that 'make clean' gets rid of)

	You should run them before each release, if only to propagate the
	version number updates into Makefile.in and configure


	Commands that should be run (to generate Makefile.in and configure)

	    aclocal
	    autoconf
	    automake

	To generate the Makefile, which you'll need below

	    ./configure

USING MAKE:

To generate the man page from the POD data in rsnapshot

    make man

To make an updated HTML man page for the website (i usually manually
put a different style sheet on it afterwards)

    make html

Or alternatively, to make both man and html

    make doc


To create the tarball for release:
I like to do this, untar the resulting tar file, and then run ./
configure && make tar again and verify that all the right files are
there
(and that none of the wrong files have slipped in. you'll notice
every file in this Makefile target is pretty specific)

    make tar

The test suite is far from complete, but i guess it could be
considered a good start

    make test

To clean up the mess left by automake/autoconf (they generate some
cache/intermediate files that you don't need)

    make clean

To create the RPM (on a RedHat compatible system, I usually used
CentOS). beware, RPMs are not necessarily compatible between distros!
rsnapshot is simple enough that the RPMs seem to work everywhere
(partly thanks to a bug reported by a SuSE user where needless RPM
dependencies were being introduced). If all goes well, you should end
up with an RPM in your working directory. see the rpm Makefile target
for details on the commands.

    tar xzvf rsnapshot-x.y.z.tar.gz
    cd rsnapshot-x.y.z
    ./configure
    make rpm
or
    make RPM_BASE_DIR=/path/to/rpmbuild rpm

The Debian package was maintained by Christoph Wegscheider
<christoph.wegscheider@wegi.net>. I'm honestly not sure exactly what he
does, I would usually coordinate with him before a release to create
the Debian package. As a last resort, the existing 1.2.1 release
source code should be available from the Debian archives as a
starting point. Unlike the Debian packages I created in the earlier
days, the ones Christoph makes are Debian Policy compliant (they have
several hundred pages of documentation detailing all those rules).

At a point where the CVS files are stable and no more changes are
needed for the release, tag the CVS files for the new version.
eg (for version 1.2.9):
   cvs tag release_1_2_9

Once you have all the packages created (or as many as you decide to
do), there's a utils/sign_packages.sh script that will go through
and create md5/sha1 hashes and gpg sign them with your GPG key. If
you don't have a GPG key, you should create one to sign the
new packages and append the public GPG key to the KEYS file in the
rsnapshot.org web root. Personally I would always 'chattr +i' the
files in the downloads directory as a reminder of their permanence
(and an extra layer of protection against hackers and clumsy
fingers).

Obviously, I'd also update the links on the web site to point to the
newest download release as well.

$ ftp upload.sourceforge.net
ftp> cd incoming
ftp> bin
ftp> mput rsnapshot-<release>*

Login to sourceforge as a project admin of rsnapshot and go to
Admin -> File Releases.  Add a new release and add files to it.

